Counter Strike Global Offensive is a first
person competitive game where terrorists play
against counter terrorists. There's more to
it than that, but that is determined by the
game mode you're playing, which can be chosen
from the main menu.
I'll now go through the game types. You can
skip bits if you look in the description of
this video.
The main game-style of CSGO can be split into
two different map types. The most popular
is defuse and if you happen to watch a competitive
match between pro teams, the chances are it's
this mode that's being played. Terrorists
start with a bomb and can choose one of two
bombsites to plant it at. The CTs start nearer
to those sites and must defend. Either team
can win by eliminating the other team completely,
or by detonating or defusing the bomb. If
time runs out, Counter Terrorists win.
Hostage rescue maps are opposite. Terrorists
start with two hostages which the Counter
Terrorists must reach, rescue and return to
their start zone- they only need to save one
to win the round. Once again you can also
win by killing the other team, and the terrorists
can run down the clock and win on time.
These two map types can be played casually
or competitively. Casual is played on a 10
v 10 server. There's no team killing, it's
far more forgiving and you only have to reach
8 rounds to win. Competitive mode is ranked,
meaning that the game puts you in a 5 v 5
game with balanced teams (in theory!) and
your score is determined by how well you perform
and whether you win. If you die, you remain
dead until the current round is over, which
can take up to several minutes. After each
round, depending on how you've done and which
team won, you're awarded money for bigger
and better weapons and items. You play on
one side for 15 rounds and then switch to
the other, with the first team to 16 winning
the game. Play enough games in this mode and
you get a badge to show you how perform compared
with everybody else in the game. This rank
can go up or down, depending on whether you
get better or worse. More on this in a later
video- it's best not to jump straight into
this mode if you know nothing about the game.
There are
several other modes supported which tend to
favour more casual, drop-in play. These are
Deathmatch, Demolition and Arms Race.
Deathmatch is simplest. If you die, you spawn
again somewhere in your level. You can choose
which weapons to use and you must kill everybody
on the other team. The action is fast-paced
and it's a great mode should you want to practice
for a proper match.
In Demolition there's a single bombsite and
the maps are smaller. It's like a more laid-back
version of Defuse and is a race to reach 11
wins first. If you die then you remain dead
but if you manage to kill somebody then your
weapon is upgraded for the next round. The
weapons get worse before they get better but
get kills most rounds and you can gain access
to some powerful sniper rifles.
And finally, there's Arms Race. It's like
deathmatch only you start with a certain weapon
and work through the list by killing people.
The final task is to knife an enemy which
finishes the game and wins it for your team.
But don't expect your team to be pleased with
you. It's every man for himself in this mode!
A recent update made it so that the top player
can be seen by others through walls, making
it drastically more difficult for one person
to pull ahead of others in this mode. I personally
find Arms Race very frustrating but there's
been a thriving community for this mode for
a number of years, well before CS GO even
came out.
Counter Strike is a big game and it's growing
rapidly. It gets regular updates and new features
and is a great game to get into. There's always
a match to be played and I have had many memorable
experiences in my time playing it. I wish
you all the best in yours!
What's the next step? I have a basic tutorial
on how to aim and what health and armour does,
which I recommend viewing if you're wanting
to get started with the game. Just click on
it to watch it. It's right there. Just wanting
to be clicked. Go on... you know you want
to!